Thorsten    00:00:03    Okay, perfect. Hello everybody. Welcome to the Opera First Community Cloud Meetup every second Tuesday at 11:00 AM et slash New York Time Zone. Um, thanks for joining. You can find our privacy policies and the link privacy policy. You can see all the details about this meeting and find the recording and we holding on the open code, which you can find under three one, um, community product conduct. Thanks for joining and thanks for <inaudible> and a lot of the teams from apicurio. Um, as mentioned in my email and with the announcement, um, if you need the queue go for API and there's no further too, I would directly went over to reaching.  
Speaker 0    00:01:08    Thank you Toin. So, hello guys. Thank you all for joining. Uh, so no, we, we are gonna talk about what apicurio is. You know, we'll talk about what we do over here, what our projects will go through up quick demo, and then hopefully we can talk about how, you know, we as a team use the Operate First Cloud and what are the benefits that we have gained out of it. So I'll just quickly introduce you to the team. So Paolo is our, uh, engineering manager. He manages a team. Eric is our lead. Uh, Carlos is our security expert. So he takes care of security and other stuff. Uh, Nikisha has joined our team recently, so she takes care of, you know, productization along with me, and we have Jacob and Andrea who also, uh, contribute to the team success. So we have a small team and I will now ask Eric to, you know, talk about apicurio and then hopefully run us through a quick demo over to Eric.  
Speaker 2    00:02:18    Yeah, thanks Rashab. So I'm gonna try to just give a little bit of context about what the apicurio community is all about, uh, what kind of projects we have up there. So, uh, I'm gonna try to do a screen share and we're gonna see if that works. Cause I'm then going to do a short demo and I think it's all gonna be fine. Um, so if you're interested in our upstream community, this is where you can find it. It's called apicurio. And, uh, we've got a, obviously a GitHub organization with the same name and a project website. So, um, initially it didn't, so it didn't start out this way, but, but where we are now with the upstream community is that apicurio is sort of this, uh, umbrella brand, if you will. Um, and we have a number of projects within that brand. So, you know, sub-projects basically.  
Speaker 2    00:03:06    And we're still working on trying to get the kinks out of the, uh, the branding challenges that we have. <laugh> with this, it's sort of like a hibernate thing, right? Where you've got hi and a bunch of smaller projects hanging off of that. So, um, in the upstream community, we have, uh, a few different projects at the moment, specifically, um, and I guess most importantly, apicurio Studio and apicurio Registry. Those are kind of the two main, main, uh, applications. Uh, and then we have some smaller things like data models and apicurio. Uh, we also have something that's, that's brewing that's going to be the successor to apicurio Studio called, that's just called API Designer. So I'm, I'm expecting it to be apicurio API Designer or possibly just apicurio designers, we're not quite sure yet. So we're working on that. Uh, that'll become important when I show you, uh, the demonstration.  
Speaker 2    00:03:51    So this is a great place to start if you're interested in the upstream community. Um, apicurio Studio is intended to be a, uh, a design suite basically for creating APIs, uh, in a visual way, visual collaborative way, right? So if you're looking for in particular contract first, uh, API development, then studio's a nice first step, uh, to address that kind of first phase of the API lifecycle, the phase where you're designing your api, designing your contract. Um, and then, um, apicurio registry is actually on the other end of that life cycle where you need a runtime component to register, um, API designs or schema designs. Uh, so if you're familiar at all with Kafka use cases, for example, one of the big use cases that apicurio registry, um, solves is the, the schema registry use case for cap applications, but it's also, uh, capable of storing open API and as k p and GraphQL type type of, uh, resources as well.  
Speaker 2    00:04:51    So registry is this place where you can, uh, is this runtime component, uh, architecturally, uh, where, um, applications that need runtime access, decoupled runtime access from, uh, or two rather, uh, schema and API designs. That's what you can use registry for. Um, so I'm not gonna dive too much more into those individual projects, but we're gonna see a little bit as a demo. So let me just jump into that so we have as much time to have a discussion afterwards as possible. Um, the two applications we currently have deployed to operate first, um, as I mentioned, are the registry and the designer, right? So, um, uh, I'm gonna just sort of show both. We have them deployed currently just separately, but kind of, uh, pulled together a little bit in the user interface, uh, by just having, uh, a navigation sidebar on the left with, with links to the different applications.  
Speaker 2    00:05:46    But, um, it's at the moment they're essentially separate deployed, uh, applications and operate first separately deployed and managed. So really quickly, what do, what do these apps do, right? So we'll start with Designer, again. Designer is this sort of successor to, uh, studio. And as I mentioned, studios this thing that allows you to do contract first, uh, API design. So this application allows a user to create and maintain a collection of schema and API designs, and then, you know, edit them and, and evolve them over time. And that is, for us, is going to become sort of the, the basis for value added, uh, functionality, functionality beyond the core ability to edit, con edit these types of content, right? Um, at the moment we're f we're focused, this is sort of an early version of this, um, of this tool. But, uh, right now, so right now we're sort of focused on the core, the core functionality of creating and, and managing this, this content.  
Speaker 2    00:06:44    So from this page, you can see I already have a few APIs that have been created. Um, I can certainly from here create an import new content. If I already have an open API file, for example, I can just import it here. I can create a new one. We have sort of basic, um, content management here where we can maintain the collection of, of, um, designs that we have with some, you know, history tracking and, and, and things like that. And, and meta metadata. The core thing about this application, of course, though, is, uh, making changes to these, uh, these, uh, to create, creating and changing these, um, pieces of content, right? These, these files essentially. So this is an example of the experience that you get when you want to, uh, create or, or design a open API or, you know, rest API using open api.  
Speaker 2    00:07:32    So we have a visual editor here, which allows you to, um, sort of, you know, form based navigation through open API content. Uh, you can go at at the source directly if you need to, but the, the goal of this design experience is to hide the source code as much as possible. So if you, you know, for users who, uh, who aren't editing open API content all day long, all day, week, all, all, all week long, it can be a little bit challenging to remember the semantics and, and remember how everything is structured with an open API document. So we wanted to create something that was a little bit more guided. Um, and so that's basically what this tool allows you to do, log, log in, create and manage these, uh, create and edit these, these things. Um, if I go back to the list, I can also see that, uh, there are other types, right?  
Speaker 2    00:08:17    So for Jason Schema, um, depending on the type of content, we, we might do a better, uh, more advanced or more naive or less advanced, or more, more naive job of e allowing you to edit the content. So in some cases, we have to just fall back to like a Monaco editor, uh, for allowing editing of the content. But the goal of the project over time is to introduce more and more of these, um, um, more visual, uh, and, and sort of guided experiences for the editing of the, of content. Okay. And then from that page, there's a few other things that can be done. Um, you know, you obviously have basic editing along with validation of content as we make changes, um, but then there's also some basic integration with, with the service registry that we're gonna see in just a second. Um, and then some other things like, you know, being able to download design and stuff like that and manage the, the metadata.  
Speaker 2    00:09:12    Okay? So once we're done designing and we've implemented our, uh, APIs and things like this, and we want to be able to register the, the content that we've created, uh, and put into production, we can use registry for that. Um, again, we've deployed a version of our multi-tenanted deployment of, of apicurio registry into Operate First. So this, the architecture of, of Registry has a number of components to support this, this multi-tendency that, that we have available. Um, and what that means is the first step that you take when you come to apicurio Registry is you have to manage the collection of instances. So you can have multiple logical instances of apicurio registry, the completely separate and, you know, sort of data segregated instances in a multi-tenant deployment. This is one of the things that, that operate first really is great for us, is this ability to, to deploy and test all of these components together in a, in a environment, in a, in a realistic, you know, deployment, uh, OpenShift deployment environment.  
Speaker 2    00:10:14    So it's been really great. Um, okay, so the first thing I would do is create an instance, and that is, this is just sort of a, you know, basic, um, uh, management of the list of instances I could create more. Uh, but then from here I can obviously dig into an individual instance. So this is the experience that you would get if, for example, you were to just download apicurio Registry and install it locally, you're going to get just a single instance view, obviously, of that content. And this is what we can do in Operate First. Uh, once you've created the instance, you get, as I said, this logical, uh, data segregated thing. From here, we can upload artifacts and manage, manage content, uh, within the system. Um, the registry allows, as I said, allows you to upload, register multiple different kinds of things. So, uh, that includes Open api, ace, and kpi, P, um, you know, pro B, Avro, et cetera.  
Speaker 2    00:11:14    Uh, and, um, you know, ultimately the registry is a place to register those pieces of content and to be, to have access to the, to that content at runtime, um, in a highly available environment. Um, the, the additional functionality that this gives you, that this system gives you, um, is something called rules. So this is sort of the last point to understand about apicurio registry, is that it not only allows you to register content, but it also, it also allows you to control the evolution of that content over time. So as new versions of your, uh, um, artifacts, uh, are created, so new versions of your API design, new versions of your schema, you can configure the registry to control whether a new version is allowed to be, uh, uploaded to that, uh, to that artifact. Um, and the reason you might wanna do that is because you might want to control, for example, the compatibility, um, rules for your content.  
Speaker 2    00:12:11    So you only maybe want to allow backward compatible changes to your content. So if you upload a version two, if it's not backward compatible, we can, the registry can detect that and then reject the content. So this provides some modicum of control over how the, the content changes over time. This is important for the use case because it will, um, uh, ensure that we can, in certain use cases, certain important use cases like Kafka, uh, you don't have schema that end up breaking existing functionality and existing tools. So, all right, I think that's as fast as I can do that. Uh, so there's the, the demo of both, uh, the major apicurio, uh, projects. So I'm gonna stop there and I'm gonna throw it back to Rohan.  
Speaker 0    00:12:58    Thank you, Eric, Rick, uh, do anybody has any questions about the product? Alright. Um, okay, so I was thinking, you know, let, let's also share about our experience about Upgrade first. So I'm gonna ask Power Pitch here because, you know, he was the one who introduced, introduced us to Operate first. Uh, Paulo, do you mind pitching in?  
Speaker 3    00:13:31    Uh, yes. Hi. I wasn't expecting disks. So, um, actually, we, I'm a big fan of, uh, uh, operate First, and I'm promoting to all the other friend, the projects and colleagues that we have in the company because we have had a great experience. And our specific story of how we stumble on, uh, uh, operate First is Biza, because I actually heard about it first and, uh, by chance, by Marcel, uh, well, while we were on, uh, uh, cross team exercise event that has nothing to do, what with what we are working on and what it was working on, we were just saying, Hey, this is, uh, I'm Paulo, this is what I do. I'm Marcel, this is what I do. And, uh, I learned about that, and I found a, a big, uh, chance there to get access to something that might be very, um, practical for your, our responsibilities because, uh, um, it should be, remember that the apicurio team is responsible for one of the manager services that WEDA is working on.  
Speaker 3    00:14:36    So we are literally, uh, working on delivering, uh, and, uh, operating a service from a pure end to end, uh, perspective. So following the Red internal processing rules, um, and, uh, but, but we also have a corresponding upstream project, and, uh, we don't have yet, uh, an official and standardized story on how to work upstream on the corresponding manager services, bits and procedures. And, uh, we found the opportunity to work, uh, with the Operat first environment, a good one for us. So I remember that, uh, it was probably around the Christmas time that, uh, I decided to try that myself, not try to, uh, ask my team to do, to work on something that I wasn't really sure it was working. So sorry for not putting total, uh, trust from the beginning, but I wanted to try that firsthand. And, uh, apparently I managed with, uh, a little back and forward of, uh, PRS because, uh, someone on your team was kind enough to tell me, Hey, do you want, uh, do, do, do you want us to do the onboarding for you?  
Speaker 3    00:15:40    And, uh, uh, as a proud former engineer, I said, oh, no, I want to do that by myself, and that would be doable. And obviously I didn't know what was going, uh, on, uh, uh, towards, but, uh, at the end we managed, uh, we did that the very first deployment and configuration. I managed to do that. Things looked, uh, okay by my point of view. Then, uh, from that moment on, I started knowing my team. Uh, it took a while for them to really pay attention to what I was telling them. Like, everyone was excited to see something, but, uh, everyone is a was, uh, to be easy to doing their job, to, to touch it until a certain point. They needed something out of that. I don't even remember what it was or how I com, how come I convince people to, to touch it.  
Speaker 3    00:16:22    But, uh, that picked up and, uh, now I think that everyone is a fan, uh, of the service specifically. Uh, and I was put in this, in the survey that I was fitting this past AIDS for two reason. One is the fact that it is easily accessible in the way that you put it together with this documentation, so everyone can figure it out by itself, more or less how to make something out of that, which is a big achievement, specifically if you come from the experience that we are facing with other environments that might not be that straightforward. And the second one, uh, which seems sounds a little cheesy, but trust me, this is really honest feedback. Your support level on the Slack channel is great. Like, uh, we know that, uh, we go there, we ask someone, there is always someone, which again, is not that common for this kind of services, even the professional ones. And usually it's very friendly, try to unlock as to make progress. So by our point of view, has always been a positive experience. So this is me speaking and I'm not, uh, giving away any compliments for free. It just anything that, uh, I really think about Eric.  
Speaker 2    00:17:29    Yeah, I just wanted to sort of, uh, build on on that or, or, or reiterate something that you, you touched on that I think is really important for us as a team is having an environment, let's call it an early access environment, or for us, like a almost a dev environment or, or experimental area that we can deploy our applications to, has been extremely valuable, valuable. Um, you know, there, as Paula mentioned, we have, we have, you know, commercial versions of both of these applications, API designer and, and service registry. So there are Red Hat managed versions of these things that customers can purchase, um, which is great, but what comes along with that are a lot of, I don't wanna say restrictions, but, but process in terms of, uh, the things that you can push to environments, right? E even staging environments, but certainly production environments.  
Speaker 2    00:18:19    Uh, and so having a, having a, a fully upstream, because that's the other aspect of this too, is that we want as much what's Red Hat? So everything we do should be in the upstream. So having the ability to take all upstream, upstream bits, put them into a, essentially an early access environment that we have full control over without the sort of, um, you know, uh, other, the sort of requirements on other teams within Red Hat and the requirements to have build processes, build, be a certain way and, and progress in a certain way through the, through the different environments, um, has been super valuable. So the, the velocity that we can achieve, I think, uh, helps us in the upstream, but then also absolutely helps us in the commercial products as well. So, uh, I think it's been overall really positive.  
Thorsten    00:19:09    Wow. Uh, thank you on that big deal. Thank you so much. Um, oh, yep. Yes, ahead.  
Speaker 4    00:19:22    Hi, um, I actually have a question. So this is hosted on Operate first. How can I, can I actually try it as a user, uh, go there and register my API and, you know, play with it?  
Speaker 2    00:19:40    Nobody else is jumping on the answer. Yes, yes, yes, you can. I will drop a link to the URL in the chat. One thing we don't have, you probably saw in the screen share, maybe our URLs aren't that great, so we need to work on that a little bit. But, uh, but yes, it is, it is available, uh, and you're welcome to give it a try. It is, you know, as mentioned, not a production, there are no SLAs, obviously, there's not a production environment, so there's no guarantees that your data is, um, going to be there forever. But, um, but, uh, yeah, you can, you can check that out. And there is a authentication layer in front of it, so you will be challenged for authentication, but you can, there is, there are social logins, so you can use, you know, a social account to log in or you can register an account if you prefer. So it should, it shouldn't be any trouble to log in.  
Speaker 4    00:20:30    I just logged in with <inaudible>.  
Speaker 2    00:20:33    Thanks. That's the best.  
Speaker 4    00:20:34    I'll give it a try.  
Speaker 5    00:20:37    Yeah, so regarding nice looking URLs, we can also help you and give you apicurio dot operate first.cloud if you like, or something like community registry. Um, since we own that, uh, domain, we can also create sub domains. No problem. Um, from a developer point of view, I'm still trying to wrap my head around it. So it's, is it for like schema validation and API validation? So if I'm coding against a certain api, I would use the registry to make sure that I'm either creating my, um, SDK out of that schema or that I'm validating whether I'm talking the correct version of that api,  
Speaker 2    00:21:20    Both of those things. I think, so it's, it's the meta, it's validating the schema. It's not doing schema validation against the actual data. So in other words, if you're in a, if you're in an asynchronous environment like, like Kafka or something like this, it's, it's not about doing validation, sorry. The registry does not validate the payloads of the messages. It validates the integrity of the schema itself, that the schema itself can evolve in ways that you want it to, and that it, it, the schema itself, uh, is correct and valid. Um, so there are rules around, for example, if you wanted to use Jason's schema, the semantics of Jason Schema are well defined, right? If you deviate from the semantics of Jason Schema, then your con your schema's just not going to work. So we can, we can prevent files that we know won't work, uh, as Jason schema from being registered.  
Speaker 2    00:22:09    And then same thing from compatibility over time. Right? Um, so f and then from a rest API standpoint, it's a similar kind of thing when you look at what the use cases would be, it would be, uh, for, for asynchronous APIs, it would be you have, um, catheter clients that need a, an aro schema, for example, in order to do sterilization and decentralization of the payloads. So they can fetch the schema at runtime from the registry rather than the schema being bundled with the application itself, which decouples the schema from the applications and makes it easier to, uh, upgrade, uh, your different, uh, applications. For example, um, from a, from a rest API standpoint, it might be you want to register an open API file so that you have it available in a canonical location in a registry, um, because perhaps you're using Swagger UI or redoc in order to generate documentation for it, and you need a URL to pull it from, you can also use that as the source for, for example, generating SDKs. Uh, so you can use that, the url, the registry perhaps as the input to an SDK generator.  
Speaker 5    00:23:18    Okay. Um, is there, is there a use case or maybe there's already a community, um, that, that uses, um, apicurio Designer and then hosts, um, their public facing APIs via registry? Or is it more for internal projects? And if I'm, if I'm doing my, yeah, like, um, intranet or corporate internal applications, so I want to host my API so that my internal developers can code against I, I guess something that Google or some like really public or GitHub office, um, they would host their, yeah, probably also in, in a, but in their own instance. I think the question is, is there like a need for a community hosted instance of the studio and the registry where somebody who's wrapping up their own, I don't know, accounting application for learning rest API so that they can drop their API there because they don't wanna spin up their own registry and they don't wanna spin up their own designer, but they might just use it for learning that stuff.  
Speaker 2    00:24:38    Yeah, it's a really good point. I think I, I think the answer for the designer side of thing is things is, is an obvious yes, that there's a, there's a, um, a desire for a community available API designer and I, and we know that because the apicurio Studio product, which is the precursor, right? Uh, the existing product, so we'll call it the Legacy project for this use case also has a, um, a free non-production, uh, you know, a, a hosted version of it, and that has gotten a ton of traffic and a ton of use. So, so people are very keen to use a tool like that, um, without needing to buy anything or install anything locally, et cetera, right? Even though it's not meant for production use, use, uh, uh, workloads because we don't have SLAs, we don't have data backups and stuff for these kinds of environments.  
Speaker 2    00:25:30    Like, like with Operate First, um, uh, it's still incredibly useful, right? As long as users know that they can back up their data themselves or need to back up their, their data themselves. So for sure, as for the registry, it's less clear. I think there, I think you raise an interesting point, and it's probably not something we've, we've thought a ton about, uh, should there, you know, is there a use for a, uh, community registry that anybody could use in a canonical way, right? I think it's a very interesting idea, but we haven't really put a lot on into that.  
Speaker 5    00:25:59    Yeah. So my, the kids around the block, which I'm helping from time to time to deploy Minecraft servers into Operate First or do they own first Pull request, or somebody's would write the first PHP application, uh, yikes. But I mean, they, they, they are starting coding, right? Um, and if they would start to play with something that they host somewhere and they can just put their API into a registry without, um, like everybody defaults to Docker hub or, um, these registries that are out there, and if there isn't a registry for this kind of work where everybody hosts there can host their private just for fun APIs, um, there might be a nice spot.  
Speaker 2    00:26:45    Yeah, agreed.  
Speaker 5    00:26:46    Very is the, um, the, so the api, the, uh, the studio is said also multi-tenancy, so I can work in my own space?  
Speaker 2    00:26:57    Yeah, so the, the yes short answer is yes, the longer answer is maybe less interesting, but at Yes, <laugh> it's actually worse. Currently the API designer is, is single user, so it's multi-tenant in the sense that all of that stuff that I showed in the demo for the designer, that list of APIs and such are stored in your browser. Uh, so we, we have, uh, a roadmap that includes creating an, an actual backend, the way that you, like a multi-tier architecture with the backend and everything so that we support multi-user collaboration in the way that one would imagine in that, in that future world, it will be multi-tenanted. We just haven't implemented that yet. So right now it's definitely multi-tenanted where the tenant is an individual browser <laugh>.  
Speaker 5    00:27:41    Okay, cool. Thanks. Interesting, John.  
Speaker 6    00:27:47    Um, so, so we, we got a way of making an API and we got a way of registering the api. Um, is there other tools that, that work around the api, like, um, here's a, a client that could, you could test against, um, or a list of, of, uh, you know, unit tests so that you could test the server out, um, that, that is trying to make that, that api are those tools that are part of this, uh, this chain  
Speaker 2    00:28:25    Every time, every time I pause, waiting for somebody else to, to jump in? No. So that's a phenomenal question, right? Like you, the, basically you're, you're saying, okay, you've got the start of the lifecycle and you've sort of got the end, almost the end of the lifecycle, right? What about everything in between? It's a, it's a great question, and yes, of course there are tools, but there aren't necessarily opinionated from our perspective, opinionated tools that we've put together into a, a full, uh, sort of package. I guess from a Red Hat perspective, we have more of those, more of those things plugged. So like, uh, from the implementation perspective, you can create a project in Corpus and implement, implement your API in Corpus, for example, uh, for, for the management API management phase of the life cycle, right? Which is more towards the end. Uh, we have three scale, uh, or Red Hat OpenShift API manager, I guess, uh, is the name of the, of the managed product.  
Speaker 2    00:29:18    Um, I, I, you're speaking my language because for, for a very long time, I've wanted to pull together the upstream versions of all of these tools into a cohesive package, whether that's an oper, this was before Operator first was even around, I've been thinking about this and we've never really had the panel to do it. So I think the answer is yes, these tools, tools exist. I think there's an opportunity to there to pull them all together in a way that's really compelling for, um, for everybody, right? For the community. Uh, micros, I think, for example, uh, addresses the, the testing and mocking part of the, of the story that you, that you raised. Um, there are obviously a plethora of, especially in, in the Java world of api, sorry, of tools to, to implement APIs. Um, uh, so yeah, I think, I think the tools are there, uh, and the question is how can they be brought together in a way that's, that's compelling and we haven't really done that yet.  
Speaker 6    00:30:16    So, so besides open, uh, api, which, um, do you do other R P C mechanisms like G R P C or even corba? I mean, all this stuff, we, you know, I come from corba times, um,  
Speaker 2    00:30:33    I'm sorry to hear that  
Speaker 6    00:30:34    <laugh>.  
Speaker 2    00:30:35    No, I'm kidding. Cobra's fine. Um, yeah, so right now the support that we have is open api, async api, um, GraphQL, um, a Avro Jason Schema heard above, and then there's some legacy types, wisdom XML schema, uh, if that gives anybody, if you break out in hives when I say those things, then you've been through that, that that hell, um, G R P C, not specifically, although we've recently had a community contribution that's in the, like Google BigQuery, um, space, which I think is kind of orthogonal maybe to G R P C to some extent. And part of often G R C I know are, are pretty tied, so, um, so yeah. But, but I mean, what I would say is that aspirationally, the community itself, these, these tools and the community, the apicurio community, the intention is to support, you know, as many formats as is sensible to do. We have a small team, the community's not huge, so there's only so much bandwidth to, to manage that kind of thing. But, but what you're saying is in the spirit of things, but we don't necessarily have, uh, you know, coverage for everything that, that we could.  
Speaker 6    00:31:46    Thank you.  
Speaker 5    00:32:06    I can barely understand you to maybe too pull your microphone closer to your,  
Thorsten    00:32:15    Um, I'm, I'm just saying we hit half an hour. I don't wanna hold you up too long, but for sure, feel free to stay in the call to talk. I mean, from my point of view, um, I had long talk with, uh, we, uh, about how using it, and I asked especially like for what could we do better? And I heard that we had some, uh, the onboarding was not clear enough on all the points, and we don't have to discuss this now, but I'm more than happy to get your feedback on this and learn from it, and also contact about getting the subq first cloud.  
Speaker 3    00:33:01    Um, I provided the feedback, uh, yesterday when I was filling the, uh, the survey. And, uh, by my point of view, one of the things that, uh, you guys might consider it doing is not necessarily something you're not doing well, but might be an additional service might be, uh, to apply your professional experience to the hosted applications or tenants that you have to help them, uh, identify what they are doing, right, where they might not be doing right from a point of view of, um, S3 and DevOps, not necessarily from the code point of view, which is outside your domain. Like for example, uh, we were at the beginning using, uh, customized, uh, kind of improvising and learning about it, but uh, over time some of the team member found that there were better way to use it. So we learn our way. Maybe, uh, you might have a quickly identified the fact that yes, we could have improved very easily and you could have help us with that.  
Speaker 3    00:34:06    Or another thing that, uh, uh, we added to learn our, uh, the hard way, uh, in this side and not on operate first, but on the internal manager platform, um, by data is how to define our own, uh, uh, SLOs, uh, and which were coherent with what we were doing genetically for a web application or a three-tier, uh, database, the can frontend application. And yes, we did it, we delivered that, uh, kind of improvising again, maybe, uh, you have a best practices or is so obvious to, to you to say, oh, we use the reference of that project and, uh, that can get you started. Um, I think that, uh, you might be doing implicitly explicitly something similar with the, the recent edition of, uh, uh, cruise to size, uh, the, uh, container's images. But again, that was one of the thing that we have to figure it out by ourself and at the end we'll probably throw up number up in the air. Maybe you might have a better process. So all these things we've done that we're learning, and that's the goal of the Operat first initiative in general. Maybe you could say, Hey, why you don't, uh, I don't know, talk to us for one hour and then we check your code that we identify the 10 major flaws that you can easily improve and get a better bang outta that. So that's my suggestion, which something extra that you might consider doing.  
Thorsten    00:35:35    Okay, thank you. So maybe the, the how to not circuit operate first idea <laugh>,  
Speaker 3    00:35:44    Yeah, that's me. I dunno, <inaudible>, but you are more often hands on with all this stuff. Uh, you might have your own perspective with, uh, with these things, what you think.  
Speaker 0    00:35:54    Uh, okay,  
Thorsten    00:35:55    Perfect.  
Speaker 0    00:35:56    Yeah, that's right. Even, even I feel, you know, the same way. So I have, I have literally stumbled into a lot of teams reaching out to me about help with operate first. Now I mentioned this to Toton earlier that the entry point is not very clear, so that's something that needs to be worked upon. Uh, but apart from all of this stuff, I would like to talk, uh, about Operat first totally from a newbie perspective for somebody who really wants to get started with operations side of things. So I can share my experience how, how I got hooked into first. So I started as a productization engineer in the team, and then I stood, I started slowly to cover the C operations. I always wanted to contribute for CD operations, CONT deployment, but I was not, uh, able to find the platform, right platform for it.  
Speaker 0    00:36:44    And then I found about Operate First, and then it provided me the right platform where I can deploy my applications. I have a community which backs me if I don't understand anything, you know, operate first, support as follow automation is again awesome. Uh, also, uh, there, there have been few interns, which were directed to me where I had to, you know, mentor them for, you know, giving a case start. So usually if they want to learn about Open Source, I usually redirect, redirect them to your training sections. The Operate First training section talks briefly about open source and covers almost everything. So, you know, I've also personally benefited from a lot of block post that you have in your training section. So I would like to see more of that. Uh, and, and other than that, you know, it also helped me understand more about what the hybrid cloud vision is all about.  
Speaker 0    00:37:39    And until I stumbled Interpret First, I wasn't sure what Open Hybrid Cloud is all about. So only when I started working with Operate First I learned about, okay, multiple workloads running across environments, and then you, you put all your operational code open source, I learned about how value propositions shifted from, you know, code to the product and then now into operations. So, you know, turning all those operational experience, you know, I think there's no better platform than Operate first right now. So that's my personal take, that's the feedback from a newbie perspective. And other things that I would personally like to say is, you know, more contents on the training part. So if you can add more content on the training section, it would be really great. So it would be like a one stop solution for somebody who wants to, you know, get started with their operations.  
Thorsten    00:38:30    Okay, great. Thank you, Steven. Experience and maybe done. Okay. Any more ideas or,  
Speaker 2    00:38:46    I actually, I actually had a quick question for Rashad. Um, you mentioned that you have o other teams coming to you for assistance with Operate First some from time to time. How, how many other groups within Red Hat would you say you've helped onboard, not helped onboard, but helped get started in some fashion or, you know, directed them to resources? Uh, for first,  
Speaker 3    00:39:07    Uh, I would say like three to four till now. Three to four different teams.  
Speaker 2    00:39:12    Great. Thanks.  
Speaker 3    00:39:15    Yeah. Uh, sorry. Uh, I wanted to change topic. I mentioned a couple of things that I thought about that might be useful for you to hear, but if you wanted to comment first, please do that.  
Thorsten    00:39:29    No, just wanna say that we can Yeah. Do something together about, uh, what you already told the other teams and maybe getting group together to like, yeah, sharing the experience, what you already sharing and you told, we have a great presentation for some of the teams that you already gave, so maybe we can put to something together there. Okay. Go on.  
Speaker 3    00:39:51    Uh, okay. So, um, I wanted to also tell you that, um, it's still a journey for us in the sense that, uh, uh, it's been a back and forward, uh, uh, development, uh, process and strategy with Operate First. Uh, when we started using that, we were deploying a custom version of our code there just to leverage the environment and to use it. So as much as that thing as some commonality with, uh, our next, uh, uh, environment that would be internal red staging, uh, they were to different code base only after a while we realized that the ideal way to work with these two environment was to actually have deployed and operate first the same beats that we had in the following environment. So we had to, uh, rework our code base so that can be compatible with both operate first and rest. So, um, as much as now we have a a successful and linear story, it, it hasn't grown organically.  
Speaker 3    00:40:54    We had to go there, get back and, and start, uh, from the beginning. Now we are in better position to suggest people how to do these things eventually and eventually follow our steps. But, uh, I don't want to make it simpler than, than it sounds like we, we, we made our first share of errors and we're still learning, uh, uh, of this experience. And, uh, the other interesting story that maybe you, you can tell to other people is that, uh, in September, uh, the team had an hackathon on Operate first. Uh, we had to, um, I don't know what we had to do. We had to change something that never really work or never was never ideal. So we agreed that the whole team could spend, uh, a week during working hours half day considering the overlapping time zone. So half day every day for a week where everyone was in a chat and, uh, everyone, even those that never had a chance to touch the environment had a strong excuse to touch the environment familiarize, do a get push open that ual and never open and things like that. And, uh, enforcing people in that everyone kinda took away the fear of the unknown and everyone realized that, uh, everyone could, uh, could touch it and use it.  
Thorsten    00:42:07    Yeah, that's a great, great input actually. And think about like journey, like how got there and learned everything and maybe maybe this like a user story on the, on the internet and like the different steps and your learning path and keeping everybody, yeah. Okay, thanks.  
Speaker 3    00:42:30    Uh, in, uh, in my will wishlist, uh, the same thing that I replied in the firm is, uh, some centralized or managed way to do authentication and authorization. So either some instance of key log or oh three, you know, or anything that you guys elect and pick up to do that right now we are deploying our own instance of key clog that give us total freedom and it's okay, uh, but uh, as uh, managed platform where you're already offering some building blocks like Kafka and others, maybe that might be something that people want, expect to find. I'm not saying that's gonna be simple to fulfill, uh, the user needs and every tenant needs, but that might be something interesting offered by the platform to, to get,  
Speaker 5    00:43:17    I think we just, um, deployed the key clock operator for the APEX project. We removed it previously, we also had Key Clock and then we moved to ACM handling the single sign on. Um, and then we just put it back in. Um, and I think it can work in a multi-tenant way. I'm not sure whether it would be a per namespace insulation of key or a cluster wide insulation, but if you just search for key in the pull requests or support issues, you see that Apex project that's just onboarded for that exact same reason.  
Speaker 3    00:43:55    Okay. Thank you.  
Thorsten    00:44:00    Okay, then I would, uh, contact contact me. Yes. Thank you. So better way and thanks everybody for joining us and I think this be on the next week, everybody on our watch. Thank you so much for joining. Wonderful. Bye-bye.  
Speaker 2    00:44:38    Thanks for having us. Bye. 
